4-developing-programs/0-pair-programming/README.md, before:

# Pair Programming

[Pair programming](https://gist.github.com/healeycodes/5acc53131957f6a96a281c89890c7706)
is a simple idea that takes some practice to get used to. In pair programming
you have two people at one computer working on a single project. Each person
takes turns in these two roles:

- **Navigator**: You are the one deciding how to approach the problem and what
  code to write, but you will not be the one typing it! You will explain your
  ideas to the Driver who will actually write the code. The Driver can ask
  questions and challenge your ideas, but ultimately you get to decide what is
  written.
- **Driver**: You are the one actually typing, moving the mouse, and using the
  computer, but you ultimately write what the Navigator is thinking. As a Driver
  you will ask questions and challenge the Navigator's ideas, but the Navigator
  has the final say on what code is written.

## Practice

> [puzzlecode.org](https://puzzlecode.org/),
> [wiki guide](https://github.com/mikegagnon/puzzlecode/wiki/)

[PuzzleCode](https://puzzlecode.org/) is a great site for learning to pair
program, the website has simple coding challenges with a minimal programming
language that you can figure out in a minute. Because the language is simple and
there is no setup required, you can get right into Pair Programming without
getting caught up in details.

After you've spent some time practicing both roles (_Navigator & Driver_) on
PuzzleCode you will be ready for Pair Programming with JavaScript.

Enjoy!

---

## References

- Articles
  - [Bullet-Point Overview](https://gist.github.com/healeycodes/5acc53131957f6a96a281c89890c7706)
  - [Good first read](https://medium.com/@weblab_tech/pair-programming-guide-a76ca43ff389)
  - [Pros and Cons](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/pair-programming/)
  - [Thorough guide](https://tuple.app/pair-programming-guide/)
  - [Deeper dive](https://martinfowler.com/articles/on-pair-programming.html)
- Videos
  - [How to Pair Program](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YhV4TaZaB84)
  - [Things to Avoid](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=McZ131y0OYU)

Commit message:

change pair programming from puzzlecode to small JS progams.  closes #33

4-developing-programs/0-pair-programming/README.md, after:

# Pair Programming

[Pair programming](https://gist.github.com/healeycodes/5acc53131957f6a96a281c89890c7706)
is a simple idea that takes some practice to get used to. In pair programming
you have two people at one computer working on a single project. Each person
takes turns in these two roles:

- **Navigator**: You are the one deciding how to approach the problem and what
  code to write, but you will not be the one typing it! You will explain your
  ideas to the Driver who will actually write the code. The Driver can ask
  questions and challenge your ideas, but ultimately you get to decide what is
  written.
- **Driver**: You are the one actually typing, moving the mouse, and using the
  computer, but you ultimately write what the Navigator is thinking. As a Driver
  you will ask questions and challenge the Navigator's ideas, but the Navigator
  has the final say on what code is written.

## Practice

To practice pair programming there are 4 small programs you can develop in
pairs. You have already studied these programs in Just Enough JavaScript, so you
should be able to focus on your pair programming role instead of how to solve
the problem.

In pair programming it's good to switch roles regularly. Try switching roles for
each user story in the spec. This strategy will accomplish two things:

1. You will both have a chance to practice each role.
2. You will experience _incremental development_ - writing a program one step at
   a time, where each step adds user-facing behavior.

Happy coding!

---

## References

- Articles
  - [Bullet-Point Overview](https://gist.github.com/healeycodes/5acc53131957f6a96a281c89890c7706)
  - [Good first read](https://medium.com/@weblab_tech/pair-programming-guide-a76ca43ff389)
  - [Pros and Cons](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/pair-programming/)
  - [Thorough guide](https://tuple.app/pair-programming-guide/)
  - [Deeper dive](https://martinfowler.com/articles/on-pair-programming.html)
- Videos
  - [How to Pair Program](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YhV4TaZaB84)
  - [Things to Avoid](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=McZ131y0OYU)
